---
layout: post
title:  "Write On, Day 1"
date:   2014-02-02 22:57:00 +1100
categories: journal
description: "My response to the first episode of Relly Annet-Baker’s February writing class, Write On."
---

I’ve signed up to [Relly Annet-Baker](https://twitter.com/RellyAB '@RellyAB on Twitter')’s month long, email based class [Write On](http://rel.ly/writeon/). 

> 28 daily emailed prompts (and a couple of surprises) to give you the tools and encouragement you need to write and publish articles on whatever topic you want, regularly.

Today was the first prompt, a series of questions about current writing habits: what you think about your writing, why you’re not writing as much as you’d like, what you’d like to change.

I’ve decided to post my responses/notes to this journal. I hope this helps build the habit of writing and publishing a wide variety of stuff here. I’m looking forward to seeing how the “class” plays out. It’s not too late to [sign up](http://rel.ly/writeon/).

Here’s my response to prompt 1:

* * *

I think that I’m not writing as often as I’d like because I’m stuck trying to write things to a certain length and with a certain thoroughness in referencing. This makes it hard to finish anything. I think this is misguided: better to write what’s appropriate/anything is better than nothing.

I’d like to write about publishing, web design, journalism, information and the role these things play in our communities. I’ve gained so much reading other peoples’ online journals. I think that even if my ideas are only interesting to a few people, its only fair to share.

I think I could write and publish something weekly—something short probably. Maybe monthly is more achievable. That would be a good habit to get into. That’s why I’m publishing this, feeding the habit.

Most recently I’ve only written in response to a request, either an [interview](http://equivalentideas.com/journal/subcompact-detentionlogs/ 'Subcompact Publishing & Detention Logs') or opportunity to write on a specific topic, like [the TPP](http://equivalentideas.com/journal/tpp-against-a-narrowing-circle/ 'Against a narrowing circle: Secrecy and the TPP Negotiations').

I like to think that at it’s best, my writing is inclusive and easy to understand. I think I use too many words, and I’d like to write more succinctly.